<!-- GRAPHIC -->

# Sirius.MFiles

Internal tools for working on M-Files Vault Application Framework projects

<!-- badges -->

---
## Description

### VafUtil

Tool for generating files used in the VAF development process. When developing vault applications, aliases of 
structure items (object types, value lists, classes, property definitions, workflows including states and 
transitions, named ACLs etc.) need to be used in various .NET attributes, and the configuration class should
also mirror the same aliases as `MFIdentifier` instances to be used throughout the VAF code.

In order to prevent inconsistencies and typos, we have adopted the following approach:

- We create a static `Alias` class which holds all aliases of the relevant part of the vault configuration
as static strings. The static strings can be used in all places where a `MFIdentifier` cannot be used, especially
in the event handler attributes.

- We make the `Configuration` class partial, and add an additional file `Configuration.Identifiers.cs`. This file
contains correctly attributed `MFIdentifier` readonly fields for all aliases in the `Alias` class. In addition to
the aliases, it also generates identifiers for owner properties, along with the [code required to initialize these](https://community.m-files.com/groups-1602070992/developers/f/developer-forum/8544/automatic-mfidentifier-resolution-for-owner-propertydef/25022#25022). 

```cs
// Initialize owner property definitioins in configuration by using VaultApplication class
public partial class VaultApplication: ConfigurableVaultApplicationBase<Configuration> {
  protected override void InitializeImpl(Vault vaultSrc) {
    base.InitializeImpl(vaultSrc);
    Configuration.InitializeOwnerPropertyDefs(vaultSrc);
  }
}
```

The tool uses the `Structure.xml` file from a Content Package as generated by M-Files Admin. It's therefore required
to always export the configuration to a Content Package before invoking the tool.

The tool generates one file per invocation. Call the tool like this to generate both files:
```
VafUtil generate aliasfile VaultContentPackage MyVAF\Alias.cs -n MyVAF
VafUtil generate configurationfile VaultContentPackage MyVAF\Configuration.Identifiers.cs -n MyVAF
```
**Notes:** 
- The `VaultContentPackage` is the folder which contains the `Index.xml` and `Metadata` folder.
- The `-n` (`--namespace`) option will configure the namespace to be used. If omitted, the namespace from the 
existing file is detected and used.
- If you want to also generate aliases and identifiers for views, add the option `-v` (`--views`).

<!--
---
## FAQ
- **Q**
    - A
-->

---
## Source

[https://github.com/siriusch/Sirius.MFiles](https://github.com/siriusch/Sirius.MFiles)

---
## License

- **[MIT license](LICENSE.txt)**
- Copyright 2023 © <a href="https://www.sirius.ch" target="_blank">Sirius Technologies AG</a>.
